Chainstaking v3 update 

There are 10 pre-existing chains, each with their own specific spread & each starting at 0.01 SOL to enter:

       •    5%
	∙	10%
	∙	25%
	∙	50%
	∙	100%
	∙	250%
	∙	500%
	∙	1000%
	∙	5000%
	∙	10000%

The first entrant of a chain can always exit (get their SOL back - fees) until someone else enters. 

However if someone else enters after them, they can’t exit until the chain is broken. 

Whenever someone enters in a chain, they are staking their invested SOL. 

In order for someone else to enter after them, they must pay what the last person paid + (spread)%. 

This means the cost to enter raises with each new entrant. 

This continues with each new SOL amount being staked for entry, until someone breaks the chain.

There are 2 ways to break a chain: 

User breaks the chain
Whoever is the last person to enter manually triggers the chain to break.

Donation pot for the chain
If the donation pot matches the cost to enter, it is used to enter (& buy out last entrant as result), which breaks the chain automatically.

All of the SOL in the donation pot is also staked as soon as it enters the pot. 

Whenever a chain is broken:
-Everybody has their SOL unstaked. 
-Once unstaked, everyone gets paid the original paid amount that the entrant AFTER them paid (and the first entry always goes to the Donation Pot)
-The last entry gets paid either the donation pot (if community breaks the chain), or the entire yield pot (if they break chain manually)

If a donation broke the chain:
-This user collects the total donation pot (which would be the same value as if someone entered after him)
-The yield pot is split between everyone before them 
-Yield Pot divided by (how much SOL staked) to determine extra amount for everyone based on their SOL staked. 

If a user broke the chain: 
-This user collects ALL yield pot 
-Everybody else splits the donation pot 
-Simple distribution: user collects all the yield pot 
-Other users get the previous amount of SOL (single amount) + the extra split from the donation pot 

So it is an auction for the yield pot:
-If a user breaks the chain (ends the auction), they take the yield pot
-If the community breaks the chain (ends the auction), they split the yield pot

The longer you wait at the top…the more yield that generates but more opportunity to get beat the longer you wait.

If you donate towards the buy out…you potentially get your spread profit quicker + extra on top (so waiting helps you too).

Every donation does a check for the current pot + what it will be at after the donation and checks to see if that new value would be over (break value) after the donation & if it does, the break is triggered with that said donation (automatic with no manual trigger required).

There is a 5 minute timer after each new entry (saves unixtimestamp and then adds 5 minutes). 

This timer must be expired (unixtimestamp greater than) in order for a user to manually break the chain. 
(This prevents users from simply entering and immediately breaking the chain before anyone gets a chance to beat them)

There is a 1% fee ADDED to all buys/stakes and donations (no fees on withdrawals on rewards, just an added fee on the actual crypto when it first comes in)

——

Chain staking technical analysis 

All SOL coming into the contract (whether through donations or entries into a chain) are staked. 

The program keeps balances for:
-Total rewards earned from both donations and entries (yield pot)
-User’s Principals from entries & the principal for the entrant after them (for paying back previous entrants in chain upon chain break)
-Total donations amount (donations are staked too, so just take the principals for the donations & rewards generated from donations are calculated as part of the yield pot). 
-(Current amount - principal) is used by the program to determine what amount in each stake account is the principal vs rewards 

These above balances in the program are used to calculate how much extra SOL users get after the chain breaks: 

When a Community chain break occurs: total donations simply goes to the current leader, and Total yield pot amount divided by (total principals from entries) = how much extra SOL users get according to their principal

When a Manual chain break occurs:User simply collects all yield pot, and Total donations amount divided by (total principals from entries) = how much extra SOL users get according to their principal

No matter what break occurs: Each user that is not the leader always receives the principal of the entrant after them 

So this leads every final calculation of rewards for non leaders to be: (principal of entrant after them) + (extra amount of SOL either from yield pot or donation pot)

And leads very final calculation of rewards for leaders to be either: (total yield pot) or (total donation pot)

At the end of every chain, each account needs to be unstaked. 

There is a flat 1% fee ADDED to each entry and each donation + a flat 0.01 SOL fee added to each entry and each donation. 

The 0.01 SOL fee is the only SOL that doesn’t get staked, as that’s held as flat rewards for unstaking each account made from entries or donations… this means once a chain breaks, any user can trigger the accounts to be unstaked & receive 0.01 SOL immediately. 

There is also a flat 1% fee TAKEN from all rewards upon withdrawal of them.

The 1% fee from entries & rewards always go directly to the company & the 0.01 SOL rewards are always held for triggers.

When a chain breaks, every associated staking account that was made as a result is displayed in groups of 5. 

Each staking account has a 0.01 SOL reward attatched to unstaking it and any user can unstake it just by clicking “Unstake”.

This means each group will unstake 5 accounts and distribute 0.01 SOL reward for each (0.05 SOL total) to the triggering user.


